#+HTML_HEAD: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/main.css" />
* The Four Agreements
** Be Impeccable With Your Word
** Don't take anything personally
** Don't make assumptions

Making assumptions in our relationships is really asking for
problems. Often we make the assumption that our partners know what we
think and that we don’t have to say what we want. We assume they are
going to do what we want, because they know us so well. If they don’t
do what we assume they should do, we feel so hurt and say, “You should
have known.”

It is very interesting how the human mind works. We have the need to
justify everything, to explain and understand everything, in order to
feel safe. We have millions of questions that need answers because
there are so many things that the reasoning mind cannot explain. It is
not important if the answer is correct; just the answer itself makes
us feel safe. This is why we make assumptions.

We make all sorts of assumptions because we don't have the courage
to ask the questions.

We make the assumption that everyone sees life the way we do. We
assume that others think the way we think, feel the way we feel, judge
the way we judge, and abuse the way we abuse. This is the biggest
assumption that humans make. And this is why we have a fear of being
ourselves around others. Because we think everyone else will judge us,
victimize us, abuse us, and blame us as we do ourselves. So even
before others have a chance to reject us, we have already rejected
ourselves. That is the way the human mind works.

The way to keep yourself from making assumptions is to ask
questions. Make sure the communication is clear. If you don’t
understand, ask. Have the courage to ask questions until you are clear
as you can be, and even then do not assume you know all there is to
know about a given situation. Once you hear the answer, you will not
have to make assumptions because you will know the truth.  Also, find
your voice to ask for what you want. Everybody has the right to tell
you no or yes, but you always have the right to ask. Likewise,
everybody has the right to ask you, and you have the right to say yes
or no.
** Always Do Your Best

THERE IS JUST ONE MORE AGREEMENT, BUT IT’S THE one that allows the
other three to become deeply ingrained habits. The fourth agreement is
about the action of the first three: Always do your best.

Under any circumstance, always do your best, no more and no less. But
keep in mind that your best is never going to be the same from one
moment to the next. Everything is alive and changing all the time, so
your best will sometimes be high quality, and other times it will not
be as good. When you wake up refreshed and energized in the morning,
your best will be better than when you are tired at night. Your best
will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick, or sober as
opposed to drunk. Your best will depend on whether you are feeling
wonderful and happy, or upset, angry, or jealous.

Doing your best is taking the action because you love it, not because
you're expecting a reward.

Under any circumstance, always do your best, no more and no less. But
keep in mind that your best is never going to be the same from one
moment to the next. Everything is alive and changing all the time, so
your best will sometimes be high quality, and other times it will not
be as good. When you wake up refreshed and energized in the morning,
your best will be better than when you are tired at night. Your best
will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick, or sober as
opposed to drunk. Your best will depend on whether you are feeling
wonderful and happy, or upset, angry, or jealous.

Under any circumstance, always do your best, no more and no less. But
keep in mind that your best is never going to be the same from one
moment to the next. Everything is alive and changing all the time, so
your best will sometimes be high quality, and other times it will not
be as good. When you wake up refreshed and energized in the morning,
your best will be better than when you are tired at night. Your best
will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick, or sober as
opposed to drunk. Your best will depend on whether you are feeling
wonderful and happy, or upset, angry, or jealous.

* The Little Book of Talent - Daniel Coyle
  
** "TIP #1 STARE AT WHO YOU WANT TO BECOME"


"If you were to visit a dozen talent hotbeds tomorrow, you would be
struck by how much time the learners spend observing top
performers. When I say “observing,” I’m not talking about passively
watching. I’m talking about staring—the kind of raw, unblinking,
intensely absorbed gazes you see in hungry cats or newborn babies."

"We each live with a “windshield” of people in front of us; one of the
keys to igniting your motivation is to fill your windshield with vivid
images of your future self, and to stare at them every day. Studies
show that even a brief connection with a role model can vastly
increase unconscious motivation. For example, being told that you
share a birthday with a mathematician can improve the amount of effort
you’re willing to put into difficult math tasks by 62 percent."

"Think of your windshield as an energy source for your brain. Use
pictures (the walls of many talent hotbeds are cluttered with photos
and posters of their stars) or, better, video. One idea: Bookmark a
few YouTube videos, and watch them before you practice, or at night
before you go to bed."


** "TIP #2 SPEND FIFTEEN MINUTES A DAY ENGRAVING THE SKILL ON YOUR BRAIN"

"What’s the best way to begin to learn a new skill? Is it by listening
to a teacher’s explanation? Reading an instructional book? Just
leaping in and trying it out? Many hotbeds use an approach I call the
engraving method."

"The key to effective engraving is to create an intense connection: to
watch and listen so closely that you can imagine the feeling of
performing the skill. For physical skills, project yourself inside the
performer’s body. Become aware of the movement, the rhythm; try to
feel the interior shape of the moves. For mental skills, simulate the
skill by re-creating the expert’s decision patterns. Chess players
achieve this by replaying classic games, move by move; public speakers
do it by regiving great speeches complete with original inflections;
musicians cover their favorite songs; some writers I know achieve this
effect by retyping passages verbatim from great works. (It sounds kind
of Zen, but it works.)"

"The key to effective engraving is to create an intense connection: to
watch and listen so closely that you can imagine the feeling of
performing the skill. For physical skills, project yourself inside the
performer’s body. Become aware of the movement, the rhythm; try to
feel the interior shape of the moves. "


** "TIP #3 STEAL WITHOUT APOLOGY"

"We are often told that talented people acquire their skill by
following their “natural instincts.” This sounds nice, but in fact it
is baloney. All improvement is about absorbing and applying new
information, and the best source of information is top performers. So
steal it."

"When you steal, focus on specifics, not general impressions. Capture
concrete facts: the angle of a golfer’s left elbow at the top of the
backswing; the curve of a surgeon’s wrist; the precise shape and
tension of a singer’s lips as he hits that high note; the exact length
of time a comedian pauses before delivering the punch line. Ask
yourself:"


"What, exactly, are the critical moves here?     • How do they perform those moves differently than I do?"


** "TIP #4 BUY A NOTEBOOK"

"A high percentage of top performers keeps some form of daily
performance journal. Tennis champion Serena Williams and former World
Series MVP Curt Schilling use notebooks;"

"What matters is that you write stuff down and reflect on it. Results
from today. Ideas for tomorrow. Goals for next week. A notebook works
like a map: It creates clarity."


** "TIP #5 BE WILLING TO BE STUPID"

"Whatever the strategy, the goal is always the same: to encourage
reaching, and to reinterpret mistakes so that they’re not verdicts,
but the information you use to navigate to the correct move."


** "TIP #6 CHOOSE SPARTAN OVER LUXURIOUS"

"Simple, humble spaces help focus attention on the deep-practice task at hand"

"reaching and repeating and struggling. When given the choice between luxurious and spartan, choose spartan. "


** "TIP #7 BEFORE YOU START, FIGURE OUT IF IT’S A HARD SKILL OR A SOFT SKILL"


"Every skill falls into one of two categories: hard skills and soft skills."

"HARD, HIGH-PRECISION SKILLS are actions that are performed as
correctly and consistently as possible, every time. They are skills
that have one path to an ideal result; skills that you could imagine
being performed by a reliable robot. Hard skills are about repeatable
precision, and tend to be found in specialized pursuits, particularly
physical ones."

"SOFT, HIGH-FLEXIBILITY SKILLS, on the other hand, are those that have
many paths to a good result, not just one. These skills aren’t about
doing the same thing perfectly every time, but rather about being
agile and interactive; about instantly recognizing patterns as they
unfold and making smart, timely choices. Soft skills tend to be found
in broader, less-specialized pursuits, especially those that involve
communication"


** "TIP #8 TO BUILD HARD SKILLS, WORK LIKE A CAREFUL CARPENTER"

"To develop reliable hard skills, you need to connect the right wires
in your brain."

"When you learn hard skills, be precise and measured. Go slowly. Make
one simple move at a time, repeating and perfecting it before you move
on. Pay attention to errors, and fix them, particularly at the start"


** "TIP #9 TO BUILD SOFT SKILLS, PLAY LIKE A SKATEBOARDER"

"While hard skills are best put together with measured precision (see
Tip #8), soft skills are built by playing and exploring inside
challenging, ever-changing environments. These are places where you
encounter different obstacles and respond to them over and over,
building the network of sensitive wiring you need to read, recognize,
and react. In other words, to build soft skills you should behave less
like a careful carpenter and more like a skateboarder in a skateboard
park: aggressive, curious, and experimental, always seeking new ways
to challenge yourself."


"When you practice a soft skill, focus on making a high number of
varied reps, and on getting clear feedback. Don’t worry too much about
making errors—the important thing is to explore. Soft skills are often
more fun to practice, but they’re also tougher because they demand
that you coach yourself. After each session ask yourself, What worked?
What didn’t? And why?"


** "TIP #10 HONOR THE HARD SKILLS"


"The point of this tip is simple: Prioritize the hard skills because
in the long run they’re more important to your talent."


"You might be surprised to learn that many top performers place great
importance on practicing the same skills they practiced as
beginners. "


"One way to keep this idea in mind is to picture your talent as a big
oak tree—a massive, thick trunk of hard skills with a towering canopy
of flexible soft skills up above. First build the trunk. Then work on
the branches"


** "TIP #11" "DON’T FALL FOR THE PRODIGY MYTH"


"If you have early success, do your best to ignore the praise and keep
pushing yourself to the edges of your ability, where improvement
happens. If you don’t have early success, don’t quit. Instead, treat
your early efforts as experiments, not as verdicts. Remember, this is
a marathon, not a sprint."


** "TIP #12 FIVE WAYS TO PICK A HIGH-QUALITY TEACHER OR COACH"


"1) Avoid Someone Who Reminds You of a Courteous Waiter"


"2) Seek Someone Who Scares You a Little"


"3) Seek Someone Who Gives Short, Clear Directions"


"4) Seek Someone Who Loves Teaching Fundamentals"


"5) Other Things Being Equal, Pick the Older Person"


"The key to deep practice is to reach. This means to stretch yourself
slightly beyond your current ability, spending time in the zone of
difficulty called the sweet spot. It means embracing the power of
repetition, so the action becomes fast and automatic. It means
creating a practice space that enables you to reach and repeat, stay
engaged, and improve your skills over time."


** "TIP #13 FIND THE SWEET SPOT"


"FIND THE SWEET SPOT There is a place, right on the edge of your
ability, where you learn best and fastest. It’s called the sweet spot"


"[Comfort Zone]"


"Sensations: Ease, effortlessness. You’re working, but not reaching or
struggling. Percentage of Successful Attempts: 80 percent and above"


"[Sweet Spot]"


"Sensations: Frustration, difficulty, alertness to errors. You’re
fully engaged in an intense struggle—as if you’re stretching with all
your might for a nearly unreachable goal, brushing it with your
fingertips, then reaching again. Percentage of Successful Attempts:
50–80 percent."


"[Survival Zone]"


"Sensations: Confusion, desperation. You’re overmatched: scrambling,
thrashing, and guessing. You guess right sometimes, but it’s mostly
luck. Percentage of Successful Attempts: Below 50 percent."


"Ask yourself: If you tried your absolute hardest, what could you
almost do? Mark the boundary of your current ability, and aim a little
beyond it. That’s your spot."


** "TIP #14" "TAKE OFF YOUR WATCH"


"Deep practice is not measured in minutes or hours, but in the number
of high-quality reaches and repetitions you make—basically, how many
new connections you form in your brain. Instead of counting minutes or
hours, count reaches and reps. "


** "TIP #15 BREAK EVERY MOVE DOWN INTO CHUNKS"


"To begin chunking, first engrave the blueprint of the skill on your
mind (see Tip #2). Then ask yourself: 1) What is the smallest single
element of this skill that I can master?  2) What other chunks link to
that chunk?"


"No matter what skill you set out to learn, the pattern is always the
same: See the whole thing. Break it down to its simplest elements. Put
it back together. Repeat."


** "TIP #16 EACH DAY, TRY TO BUILD ONE PERFECT CHUNK"


"In our busy lives, it’s sometimes tempting to regard merely
practicing as a success. We complete the appointed hour and sigh
victoriously—mission accomplished! But the real goal isn’t practice;
it’s progress. "


"One useful method is to set a daily SAP: smallest achievable
perfection. In this technique, you pick a single chunk that you can
perfect—not just improve, not just “work on,” but get 100 percent
consistently correct. "


** "TIP #17 EMBRACE STRUGGLE"


"Deep practice has a telltale emotional flavor, a feeling that can be
summed up in one word: “struggle.”"


** "TIP #18 CHOOSE FIVE MINUTES A DAY OVER AN HOUR A WEEK"


"With deep practice, small daily practice “snacks” are more effective
than once-a-week practice binges. The reason has to do with the way
our brains grow—incrementally, a little each day, even as we sleep. "


"The other advantage of practicing daily is that it becomes a
habit. The act of practicing—making time to do it, doing it well—can
be thought of as a skill in itself, perhaps the most important skill
of all. Give it time. According to research, establishing a new habit
takes about thirty days."


** "TIP #19 DON’T DO “DRILLS.” INSTEAD, PLAY SMALL, ADDICTIVE GAMES"


"Good coaches share a knack for transforming the most mundane
activities—especially the most mundane activities—into games. The
governing principle is this: If it can be counted, it can be turned
into a game. For example, playing a series of guitar chords as a drill
is boring. But if you count the number of times you do it perfectly
and give yourself a point for each perfect chord, it can become a
game. Track your progress, and see how many points you score over a
week. The following week, try to score more."


** "TIP #20 PRACTICE ALONE"


"Solo practice works because it’s the best way to 1) seek out the
sweet spot at the edge of your ability, and 2) develop discipline,
because it doesn’t depend on others. "


** "TIP #21 THINK IN IMAGES"


"Whenever possible, create a vivid image for each chunk you want to
learn. The images don’t have to be elaborate, just easy to see and
feel."


** "TIP #22 PAY ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY AFTER YOU MAKE A MISTAKE"


"Brain-scan studies reveal a vital instant, 0.25 seconds after a
mistake is made, in which people do one of two things—they look hard
at the mistake or they ignore it. People who pay deeper attention to
an error learn significantly more than those who ignore it. Develop
the habit of attending to your errors right away. Don’t wince, don’t
close your eyes; look straight at them and see what really happened,
and ask yourself what you can do next to improve. Take mistakes
seriously, but never personally."


** "TIP #23 VISUALIZE THE WIRES OF YOUR BRAIN FORMING NEW CONNECTIONS"


"When you go to the sweet spot on the edge of your ability and reach
beyond it, you are forming and strengthening new connections in your
brain. Mistakes aren’t really mistakes, then—they’re the information
you use to build the right links. The more you pay attention to
mistakes and fix them, the more of the right connections you’ll be
building inside your brain. Visualizing this process as it happens
helps you reinterpret mistakes as what they actually are: tools for
building skill"


** "TIP #24 VISUALIZE THE WIRES OF YOUR BRAIN GETTING FASTER"


"Every time you practice deeply—the wires of your brain get
faster. Over time, signal speeds increase to 200 mph from 2 mph. When
you practice, it’s useful and motivating to visualize the pathways of
your brain being transformed from simple copper wires to high-speed
broadband, because that’s what’s really happening"


** "TIP #25 SHRINK THE SPACE"


"Smaller practice spaces can deepen practice when they are used to
increase the number and intensity of the reps and clarify the goal. "


"Ask yourself: What’s the minimum space needed to make these reaches
and reps? Where is extra space hindering fast and easy communication?"


** "TIP #26 SLOW IT DOWN (EVEN SLOWER THAN YOU THINK)"


"Super-slow practice works like a magnifying glass: It lets us sense
our errors more clearly, and thus fix them. "


** "TIP #27 CLOSE YOUR EYES"


"One of the quickest ways to deepen practice is also one of the
simplest: Close your eyes. "


** "TIP #28 MIME IT"


"At talent hotbeds you will see people swinging golf clubs and tennis
rackets at empty air, playing the piano on tabletops, and skiing
imaginary slalom courses with their feet fixed on the floor. It looks
crazy, but from a deep-practice perspective it makes sense. Removing
everything except the essential action lets you focus on what matters
most: making the right reach."


** "TIP #29 WHEN YOU GET IT RIGHT, MARK THE SPOT"


"One of the most fulfilling moments of a practice session is when you
have your first perfect rep. When this happens, freeze. Rewind the
mental tape and play the move again in your mind. Memorize the
feeling, the rhythm, the physical and mental sensations. The point is
to mark this moment—this is the spot where you want to go again and
again. This is not the finish—it’s the new starting line for
perfecting the skill until it becomes automatic. As Kimberly
Meier-Sims of the Sato Center for Suzuki Studies says, “Practice
begins when you get it right.”"


** "TIP #30 TAKE A NAP"


"The science: Napping is good for the learning brain, because it helps
strengthen the connections formed during practice and prepare the
brain for the next session."


** "TIP #31" "TO LEARN A NEW MOVE, EXAGGERATE IT"


"To learn a new move, exaggerate it. If the move calls for you to lift
your knees, lift them to the ceiling. If it calls for you to press
hard on the guitar strings, press with all your might. If it calls for
you to emphasize a point while speaking in public, emphasize with
theatricality. Don’t be halfhearted. You can always dial back
later. Go too far so you can feel the outer edges of the move, and
then work on building the skill with precision."


** "TIP #32 MAKE POSITIVE REACHES"


"There’s a moment just before every rep when you are faced with a
choice: You can either focus your attention on the target (what you
want to do) or you can focus on the possible mistake (what you want to
avoid). This tip is simple: Always focus on the positive move, not the
negative one."


"For example, a golfer lining up a putt should tell herself, “Center
the stroke,” not “Don’t pull this putt to the left.” A violinist faced
with a difficult passage should tell himself, “Nail that A-flat,” not
“Oh boy, I hope I don’t miss that A-flat.” Psychologists call this
“positive framing,” and provide plentiful theories of how framing
affects our subconscious mind. The point is, it always works better to
reach for what you want to accomplish, not away from what you want to
avoid."


"Let’s pretend that one week from now you will take a test on the next
ten pages of this book. You have thirty minutes to study. Which
practice method would help you get a better grade?"


** "TIP #33 TO LEARN FROM A BOOK, CLOSE THE BOOK"


"A) Reading those ten pages four times in a row, and trying to
memorize them.  B) Reading those ten pages once, then "


"closing the book and writing a one-page summary."


"It’s not even close. Research shows that people who follow strategy B
remember 50 percent more material over the long term than people who
follow strategy A. This is because of one of deep practice’s most
fundamental rules: Learning is reaching. Passively reading a book—a
relatively effortless process, letting the words wash over you like a
warm bath—doesn’t put you in the sweet spot. Less reaching equals less
learning."


"On the other hand, closing the book and writing a summary forces you
to figure out the key points (one set of reaches), process and
organize those ideas so they make sense (more reaches), and write them
on the page (still more reaches, along with repetition). The equation
is always the same: More reaching equals more learning."


** "TIP #34 USE THE SANDWICH TECHNIQUE"


"Deep practice is about finding and fixing mistakes, so the question
naturally pops up: What’s the best way to make sure you don’t repeat
mistakes? One way is to employ the sandwich technique. It goes like
this: 1. Make the correct move.  2. Make the incorrect move.  3. Make
the correct move again. The goal is to reinforce the correct move and
to put a spotlight on the mistake, preventing it from slipping past
undetected and becoming wired into your circuitry."


** "TIP #35 USE THE 3 × 10 TECHNIQUE"


"This piece of advice comes from Dr. Douglas Fields, a neurologist at
the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, who
researches memory and learning. He discovered that our brains make
stronger connections when they’re stimulated three times with a rest
period of ten minutes between each stimulation. The real-world
translation: To learn something most effectively, practice it three
times, with ten-minute breaks between each rep. “I apply this to
learning all the time in my own life, and it works,” Fields says. “For
example, in mastering a difficult piece of music on the guitar, I
practice, then I do something else for ten minutes, then I practice
again [and so on].”"


** "TIP #36 INVENT DAILY TESTS"


"To invent a good test, ask yourself: What’s one key element of this
skill? How can I isolate my accuracy or reliability, and measure it?
How can I make it fun, quick, and repeatable, so I can track my
progress?"


** "TIP #37 TO CHOOSE THE BEST PRACTICE METHOD, USE THE R.E.P.S. GAUGE"


"The biggest problem in choosing a practice strategy is not that there
are too few options, but that there are too many."


"This tip provides a way to measure practice effectiveness. It’s
called the R.E.P.S. gauge. Each letter stands for a key element of
deep practice.  R: Reaching and Repeating E: Engagement P:
Purposefulness S: Strong, Speedy Feedback."


"ELEMENT 1: REACHING AND REPEATING. Does the practice have you
operating on the edge of your ability, reaching and repeating?"


"ELEMENT 2: ENGAGEMENT. Is the practice immersive? Does it command
your attention? Does it use emotion to propel you toward a goal?"


"ELEMENT 3: PURPOSEFULNESS. Does the task directly connect to the
skill you want to build?"


"ELEMENT 4: STRONG, SPEEDY FEEDBACK. Does the learner receive a stream
of accurate information about his performance—where he succeeded and
where he made mistakes?"


"The idea of this gauge is simple: When given a choice between two
practice methods, or when you’re inventing a new test or game, pick
the one that maximizes these four qualities, the one with the most
R.E.P.S."


** "TIP #38 STOP BEFORE YOU’RE EXHAUSTED"


"In many skills, particularly athletic, medical, and military ones,
there’s a long tradition of working until total exhaustion. This
tradition has its uses, particularly for improving fitness and mental
toughness, and for forging emotional connections within a group. But
when it comes to learning, the science is clear: Exhaustion is the
enemy. Fatigue slows brains. It triggers errors, lessens
concentration, and leads to shortcuts that create bad habits. It’s no
coincidence that most talent hotbeds put a premium on practicing when
people are fresh, usually in the morning, if possible. When exhaustion
creeps in, it’s time to quit."


** "TIP #39 PRACTICE IMMEDIATELY AFTER PERFORMANCE"


"The previous tip was about the importance of practicing when you’re
fresh. This tip is about a different kind of freshness, which comes in
the moment just after a performance, game, or competition. At that
moment, practicing is probably the last thing you want to do. But it’s
the first thing you should do, if you’re not too worn out, because it
helps you target your weak points and fix them. As the golfer Jack
Nicklaus said, “I always achieve my most productive practice after an
actual round. Then, the mistakes are fresh in my mind and I can go to
the practice tee and work specifically on those mistakes.”"


** "TIP #40 JUST BEFORE SLEEP, WATCH A MENTAL MOVIE"


"This is a useful habit I’ve heard about from dozens of top
performers, ranging from surgeons to athletes to comedians. Just
before falling asleep, they play a movie of their idealized
performance in their heads. A wide body of research supports this
idea, linking visualization to improved performance, motivation,
mental toughness, and confidence. Treat it as a way to rev the engine
of your unconscious mind, so it spends more time churning toward your
goals."


** "TIP #41 END ON A POSITIVE NOTE"


"A practice session should end like a good meal—with a small, sweet
reward. It could be playing a favorite game or it could be more
literal. (Chocolate works quite well.) My ten-year-old daughter ends
her violin practices with a foot-stomping rendition of the bluegrass
tune “Old Joe Clark.”"


** "TIP #42 SIX WAYS TO BE A BETTER TEACHER OR COACH"


"Sooner or later, no matter who you are, you’ll find yourself being a
teacher, a coach, or a mentor. "


"1) Use the First Few Seconds to Connect on an Emotional Level"


"2) Avoid Giving Long Speeches—Instead, Deliver Vivid Chunks of Information"


"3) Be Allergic to Mushy Language"


"4) Make a Scorecard for Learning"


"5) Maximize “Reachfulness”"


"6) Aim to Create Independent Learners"


** "TIP #43 EMBRACE REPETITION"


"Repetition is the single most powerful lever we have to improve our
skills, because it uses the built-in mechanism for making the wires of
our brains faster and more accurate"


"Moe Norman was a shy Canadian who played briefly on the professional
golf tour in the 1960s and ’70s. He was also, in most estimations, the
most accurate golfer in history. Norman shot seventeen holes in one,
three scores of 59, and, in Tiger Woods’s estimation, ranked as one of
two golfers in history who “owned their swing” (the other was Ben
Hogan). Norman was also a likely autistic who, at a young age, became
enraptured by the power of repetition. From the age of sixteen onward,
Norman hit eight hundred to a thousand balls a day, five days a week;
calluses grew so thick on his hands he had to pare them with a
knife. Because of his emotional struggles, Norman had difficulty
competing in tournaments. But at a demonstration in 1995, he hit
fifteen hundred drives in a row, all of them landing within fifteen
yards of each other. As Woods put it, Norman “woke up every day and
knew he was going to hit it well. Every day. It’s frightening how
straight he hits it.”"


"Embracing repetition means changing your mindset; instead of viewing
it as a chore, view it as your most powerful tool. As the martial
artist and actor Bruce Lee said, “I fear not the man who has practiced
ten thousand kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick
ten thousand times.”"


** "TIP #44 HAVE A BLUE-COLLAR MIND-SET"


"From a distance, top performers seem to live charmed, cushy
lives. When you look closer, however, you’ll find that they spend vast
portions of their life intensively practicing their craft. Their
mind-set is not entitled or arrogant; it’s 100-percent blue collar:
They get up in the morning and go to work every day, whether they feel
like it or not. As the artist Chuck Close says, “Inspiration is for
amateurs.”"


** "TIP #45 FOR EVERY HOUR OF COMPETITION, SPEND FIVE HOURS PRACTICING"


"A five-to-one ratio of practice time to performance time is a good
starting point; ten to one is even better."


** "TIP #46 DON’T WASTE TIME TRYING TO BREAK BAD HABITS—INSTEAD, BUILD NEW ONES"


"The solution is to ignore the bad habit and put your energy toward
building a new habit that will override the old one. A good example of
this technique is found in the work of the Shyness Clinic, a program
based in Los Altos, California, that helps chronically shy people
improve their social skills. The clinic’s therapists don’t delve into
a client’s personal history; "


"they don’t try to “fix” anything. Instead, they focus on building new
skills through what they call a social fitness model: a series of
simple, intense, gradually escalating workouts that develop new social
muscles. One of the first workouts for a Shyness Clinic client is to
walk up to a stranger and ask for the time. Each day the workout grows
more strenuous"


"To build new habits, start slowly. Expect to feel stupid and clumsy
and frustrated at first—after all, the new wires haven’t been built
yet, and your brain still wants to follow the old pattern. Build the
new habit by gradually increasing the difficulty, little by little. It
takes time, but it’s the only way new habits grow. For more insights
on this process, read The Power of Habit, by Charles Duhigg."


** "TIP #47 TO LEARN IT MORE DEEPLY, TEACH IT"


** "TIP #48" "GIVE A NEW SKILL A MINIMUM OF EIGHT WEEKS"


"When it comes to growing new skills, eight weeks seems to be an
important threshold. It’s the length of many top-level training
programs around the world, from the Navy SEALs’ physical-conditioning
program to the Meadowmount School of Music program to the clinics of
the Bolshoi Ballet to the mission training for the Mercury
astronauts. "


"Of course, this doesn’t mean that you can be proficient in any skill
in eight weeks. Rather, it underlines two more basic points: 1)
Constructing and honing neural circuitry takes time, no matter who you
are; and 2) Resilience and grit are vital tools, particularly in the
early phases of learning. Don’t make judgments too early. Keep at it,
even if you don’t feel immediate improvement. Give your talent (that
is, your brain) the time it needs to grow."


** "TIP #49 WHEN YOU GET STUCK, MAKE A SHIFT"


"We all know the feeling. You start out in a new skill, you progress
swiftly for a while, and then all of a sudden … you stop. Those are
called plateaus. "


"Research by Dr. K. Anders Ericsson, a professor of psychology at
Florida State University and coeditor of The Cambridge Handbook of
Expertise and Expert Performance, shows that the best way past a
plateau is to jostle yourself beyond it; to change your practice
method so you disrupt your autopilot and rebuild a faster, better
circuit. One way to do this is to speed things up—to force yourself to
do the task faster than you normally would."


"Or you can slow things down—going so slowly that you highlight
previously undetected mistakes. Or you can do the task in reverse
order, turn it inside out or upside down. It doesn’t matter which
technique you use, as long as you find a way to knock yourself out of
autopilot and into your sweet spot."


** "TIP #50 CULTIVATE YOUR GRIT"


"Grit is that mix of passion, perseverance, and self-discipline that
keeps us moving forward in spite of obstacles. It’s not flashy, and
that’s precisely the point. In a world in which we’re frequently
distracted by sparkly displays of skill, grit makes the difference in
the long run."


"Recently, a University of Pennsylvania researcher named Angela
Duckworth measured the influence of grit on twelve hundred first-year
West Point cadets before they began a brutal summer training course
called the Beast Barracks. Before the course began, she gave the
cadets a brief test: seventeen questions that asked them to rate their
own ability to stick to goals, to be motivated by failure, and to
persist in the face of obstacles. It turned out that this test—which
took about two minutes to complete—was uncannily accurate at
predicting whether or not a cadet succeeded, far exceeding West
Point’s complex set of predictive criteria, including IQ,
psychological test results, grade-point average, and physical
fitness. The grit test has since been used to predict success in
schools, business, and a variety of other settings."


"Grit isn’t inborn. It’s developed, like a muscle, and that
development starts with awareness. To take Duckworth’s test, do a
computer search for “Grit Survey” (or go directly to
www.​authentichappiness​.​sas.​upenn.​edu/​tests/​SameAnswers/​t.​aspx?​id=​1246). Take
the test and use your score as a way to reflect on the role of this
quality in your life"


"For instance, when you hit an obstacle, how do you react? Do you tend
to focus on a long-term goal, or move from interest to interest? What
are you seeking in the long run? Begin to pay attention to places in
your life where you’ve got grit, and celebrate them in yourself and
others."


** "TIP #51 KEEP YOUR BIG GOALS SECRET"


"Telling others about your big goals makes them less likely to happen,
because it creates an unconscious payoff—tricking our brains into
thinking we’ve already accomplished the goal. Keeping our big goals to
ourselves is one of the smartest goals we can set."


** "TIP #52 “THINK LIKE A GARDENER, WORK LIKE A CARPENTER”"


"To do this, it helps to “think like a gardener and work like a
carpenter.” I heard this saying at Spartak. Think patiently, without
judgment. Work steadily, strategically, knowing that each piece
connects to a larger whole."


"Deep practice (n), also called deliberate practice: The form of
learning marked by 1) the willingness to operate on the edge of your
ability, aiming for targets that are just out of reach, and 2) the
embrace of attentive repetition."


"Ignition (n): The motivational process that occurs when your identity
becomes linked to a long-term vision of your future. Triggers
significant amounts of unconscious energy; usually marked by the
realization That is who I want to be."


"Reach (v): The act of stretching slightly beyond your current
abilities toward a target, which causes the brain to form new
connections. Reaching invariably creates mistakes, which are the
guideposts you use to improve the next attempt."


"Rep (n, abbreviation for repetition): The act of attentively
repeating an action, often with slight variances at gradually
increasing difficulty, which causes the brain’s pathways to increase
speed and improve accuracy."


"Shallow practice (n): The opposite of deep practice, marked by lack
of intensity, vagueness of goal, and/or the unwillingness to reach
beyond current abilities. Often caused by an aversion to making
mistakes; results in vastly slowed skill acquisition and
learning. Sweet spot (n): The zone on the edge of current ability
where learning happens fastest. Marked by a frequency of mistakes, and
also by the recognition of those mistakes (see Tip #13)."

* The Art of Learning_ A Journey in the Pursuit of Excellence Josh Waitzkin


When aiming for the top, your path requires an engaged, searching mind. You have
to make obstacles spur you to creative new angles in the learning process. Let
setbacks deepen your resolve. You should always come off an injury or a loss
better than when you went down. Another angle on this issue is the unfortunate
correlation for some between consistency and monotony.

It is all too easy to get caught up in the routines of our lives and to lose
creativity in the learning process. Even people who are completely devoted to
cultivating a certain discipline often fall into a mental rut, a disengaged
lifestyle that implies excellence can be obtained by going through the motions.
We lose presence. Then an injury or some other kind of setback throws a wrench
into the gears. We are forced to get imaginative.

Most people would be surprised to discover that if you compare the thought
process of a Grandmaster to that of an expert (a much weaker, but quite
competent chess player), you will often find that the Grandmaster consciously
looks at less, not more. That said, the chunks of information that have been put
together in his mind allow him to see much more with much less conscious
thought. So he is looking at very little and seeing quite a lot. This is the
critical idea.

** The Power of Presence

Grandmasters know how to make the subtlest cracks decisive. The only thing to do
was become immune to the pain, embrace it, until I could work through hours of
mind-numbing complexities as if I were taking a lovely walk in the park.

The vise, after all, was only in my head. I spent years working on this issue,
learning how to maintain the tension—becoming at peace with mounting pressure.
Then, as a martial artist, I turned this training to my advantage, making my
opponents explode from mental combustion because of my higher threshold for
discomfort.

In every discipline, the ability to be clearheaded, present, cool under fire is
much of what separates the best from the mediocre. In competition, the dynamic
is often painfully transparent. If one player is serenely present while the
other is being ripped apart by internal issues, the outcome is already clear.
The prey is no longer objective, makes compounding mistakes, and the predator
moves in for the kill. While more subtle, this issue is perhaps even more
critical in solitary pursuits such as writing, painting, scholarly thinking, or
learning.

In the absence of continual external reinforcement, we must be our own monitor,
and quality of presence is often the best gauge. We cannot expect to touch
excellence if “going through the motions” is the norm of our lives. On the other
hand, if deep, fluid presence becomes second nature, then life, art, and
learning take on a richness that will continually surprise and delight. Those
who excel are those who maximize each moment’s creative potential—for these
masters of living, presence to the day-to-day learning process is akin to that
purity of focus

others dream of achieving in rare climactic moments when everything is on the
line.

The secret is that everything is always on the line. The more present we are at
practice, the more present we will be in competition, in the boardroom, at the
exam, the operating table, the big stage. If we have any hope of attaining
excellence, let alone of showing what we’ve got under pressure, we have to be
prepared by a lifestyle of reinforcement. Presence must be like breathing.

** Searching for the Zone

How can I learn to enter the zone at will, make it a way of life? How can I
maintain my focus under pressure, stay serene and principled under fire,
overcome distraction? What do I do when my emotions get out of control?

The physiologists at LGE had discovered that in virtually every discipline, one
of the most telling features of a dominant performer is the routine use of
recovery periods.

Players who are able to relax in brief moments of inactivity are almost always
the ones who end up coming through when the game is on the line. This is why the
eminent tennis players of their day, such as Ivan Lendl and Pete Sampras, had
those strangely predictable routines of serenely picking their rackets between
points, whether they won or lost the last exchange, while their rivals fumed at
a bad call or pumped a fist in excitement. Consider Tiger Woods, strolling to
his next shot, with a relaxed focus in his eyes. Remember Michael Jordan sitting
on the bench, a towel on his shoulders, letting it all go for a two-minute break
before coming back in the game? Jordan was completely serene on the bench even
though the Bulls desperately needed him on the court. He had the fastest
recovery time of any athlete I’ve ever seen.

In the coming months, as I became more attuned to the qualitative fluctuations
of my thought processes, I found that if a think of mine went over fourteen
minutes, it would often become repetitive and imprecise.

After noticing this pattern, I learned to monitor the efficiency of my thinking.
If it started to falter, I would release everything for a moment, recover, and
then come back with a fresh slate. Now when faced with difficult chess
positions, I could think for thirty or forty minutes at a very high level,
because my concentration was fueled by little breathers.

At LGE, they made a science of the gathering and release of intensity, and found
that, regardless of the discipline, the better we are at recovering, the greater
potential we have to endure and perform under stress.

At LGE they had discovered that there is a clear physiological connection when
it comes to recovery—cardiovascular interval training can have a profound effect
on your ability to quickly release tension and recover from mental exhaustion.

If you are interested in really improving as a performer, I would suggest
incorporating the rhythm of stress and recovery into all aspects of your life.
Truth be told, this is what my entire approach to learning is based on—breaking
down the artificial barriers between our diverse life experiences so all moments
become enriched by a sense of interconnectedness.

So, if you are reading a book and lose focus, put the book down, take some deep
breaths, and pick it up again with a fresh eye. If you are at work and find
yourself running out of mental stamina, take a break, wash your face, and come
back renewed.

The unconscious mind is a powerful tool, and learning how to relax under
pressure is a key first step to tapping into its potential.

Interval work is a critical building block to becoming a consistent long-term
performer. If you spend a few months practicing stress and recovery in your
everyday life, you’ll lay the physiological foundation for becoming a resilient,
dependable pressure player. The next step is to create your trigger for the
zone.

Not only do we have to be good at waiting, we have to love it. Because waiting
is not waiting, it is life. Too many of us live without fully engaging our
minds, waiting for that moment when our real lives begin. Years pass in boredom,
but that is okay because when our true love comes around, or we discover our
real calling, we will begin. Of course the sad truth is that if we are not
present to the moment, our true love could come and go and we wouldn’t even
notice. And we will have become someone other than the you or I who would be
able to embrace it. I believe an appreciation for simplicity, the everyday—the
ability to dive deeply into the banal and discover life’s hidden richness—is
where success, let alone happiness, emerges.

Along these lines, when considering the issue of performance state, it is
important to avoid focusing on those rare climactic moments of high-stakes
competitive mayhem. If you get into a frenzy anticipating the moment that will
decide your destiny, then when it arrives you will be overwrought with
excitement and tension. To have success in crunch time, you need to integrate
certain healthy patterns into your day-to-day life so that they are completely
natural to you when the pressure is on. The real power of incremental growth
comes to bear when we truly are like water, steadily carving stone. We just keep
on flowing when everything is on the line.

I had learned from Jack Groppel at LGE to eat five almonds every forty-five
minutes during a long chess game, to stay in a steady state of alertness and
strength.

** Making Sandals

To walk a thorny road, we may cover its every inch with leather or we can make
sandals.

I had to develop the habit of taking on my technical weaknesses whenever someone
pushed my limits instead of falling back into a self-protective indignant pose.
Once that adjustment was made, I was free to learn. If someone got into my head,
they were doing me a favor, exposing a weakness. They were giving me a valuable
opportunity to expand my threshold for turbulence. Dirty players were my best
teachers.

In my experience the greatest of artists and competitors are masters of
navigating their own psychologies, playing on their strengths, controlling the
tone of battle so that it fits with their personalities.

* what are the best situations to use pros/cons solving method?
I think when you want to choose between two options.
* debug


A Method in the Madness

Effective debugging requires that we take thesesteps: 
 1. Workout why thesoftwareisbehaving unexpectedly. 
 2. Fixtheproblem. 
 3. Avoid breaking anything else. 
 4. Maintain or improve the overall quality (readability, architecture, testcoverage, performance,andsoon)of the code. 
 5. Ensurethatthesameproblemdoes notoccurelsewhereandcan- not occur again.

Debugging Is More Than Making the Bug Go Away

The Empirical Approach There are many different approaches

The Empirical Approach

The CoreDebugging Process

Empiricism relies upon observation or experience, rather than theory or pure
logic. In the context of debugging, this means directly observing the behavior
of the software.

Diagnose: Construct hypotheses, and test them by performing experiments until you are confident that you have identified the underlying cause ofthe bug.
Fix: Design and implement changes that fix the problem, avoid intro- ducingregressions,andmaintainorimprovetheoverallqualityof thesoftware.

Reflect: Learnthelessonsofthebug.Wheredidthingsgowrong?Arethere anyotherexamplesofthesameproblemthatwillalsoneedfixing? Whatcanyoudotoensurethatthesameproblemdoesn'thappen again?

The core of the debugging process consists of four steps: 
Reproduce: Find a way to reliably and conveniently reproduce the problem on demand.

First Things First

"Astemptingasitmightbetodive rightin,it'sworthtakingalittletime beforedoing sotomake sure thatwefirsthave all our ducks ina row. "

"CheckSimple ThingsFirst "

"CheckSimple ThingsFirst Most bugs are caused by simple"

"OneProblem at a Time "

"It'ssometimes tempting,whenfacedwithseveral problems, toworkon them in parallel. This is especially true if the bugs are all in the same generalarea.Don't giveintothistemptation. "

"PutIt inAction "

" Make suretodo thefollowing: ­ Workout why thesoftwareis behaving unexpectedly. ­ Fixtheproblem. ­ Avoidbreaking anythingelse. ­ Maintainor improve overall quality. ­ Ensure that the same problem does not occur elsewhere and cannotoccur again. · Leverage your software'sabilityto show you what'shappening. · Workon only one problem ata time. · Make surethatyouknow exactly whatyou're looking for: "

" Whatishappening? ­ What should be happening? · Check simple thingsfirst. "

"Reproduce"

" PutIt inAction "

" Finda reproduction beforedoing anythingelse. · Ensure that you're running the same version as the bug was reportedagainst. · Duplicate theenvironmentthatthebug wasreportedin. · Determinetheinput necessary toreproduce the bug by: ­ Inference ­ Recordingappropriate inputs via logging · Ensure that your reproduction is both reliable and convenient throughiterativerefinement: ­ Reduce the number of steps, amount of data, or time required. ­ Remove nondeterminism. ­ Automate. "

"Fix "

"PutIt inAction "

"· Construct hypotheses, andtestthemwithexperiments. ­ Make sure you understand what your experiments are going totell you. ­ Make onlyone change ata time. ­ Keepa recordofwhatyou've tried. ­ Ignorenothing. · Whenthingsaren'tgoing well: ­ If the changes you're making don't seem to be having an effect,you'renot changingwhatyou thinkyouare. ­ Validate your assumptions. "

"­ Are you facing multiple interacting causes or a changing underlyingsystem? · Validate your diagnosis. "

" Testing "

"3. Fixthebug. 4. Demonstrate thatyour fix works (thefailingtests nolonger fail). 5. Demonstratethatyouhaven'tintroducedanyregressions(noneof theteststhatpreviously passed now fail). "

"Giventhatabugslippedthrough,clearlyeitheryourexistingtestsdon't adequatelytestthefunctionalityinquestionorthetestsarethemselves broken.Consequently, youeitherneedtoaddoneormorenewtestsor fixtheexisting ones. Here'sthe sequence tofollow: 1. Run theexistingtests,anddemonstrate thattheypass. 2. Addoneormorenewtests,orfixtheexistingtests,todemonstrate thebug (inotherwords,tofail). "

" PutIt inAction "

"· Bug fixing involves threegoals: ­ Fixtheproblem. ­ Avoidintroducing regressions. ­ Maintainor improve overall quality (readability,architecture, testcoverage, andsoon) ofthecode. · Startfroma clean source tree. · Ensurethatthetestspass beforemaking anychanges. · Workouthowyou'regoingtotestyourfixbeforemakingchanges. · Fixthecause, notthesymptoms. · Refactor,but neverat thesame timeas modifyingfunctionality. · One logical change,one check-in. "

"Reflect "

"thesoftwarelifecycle? 5.5 "

"5.5 PutIt inAction "

"· Take thetime toperforma rootcause analysis: ­ Atwhatpoint inyour process didtheerrorarise? ­ Whatwentwrong? · Ensurethatthesame problem can't happen again: ­ Automatically checkforproblems. ­ Refactorcode toremove theopportunity forincorrectusage. ­ Talk toyour colleagues, and modify your process if appropri- ate. · Close theloop withother stakeholders. "

"DiscoveringThat You HaveaProblem "

"PutIt inAction "

" Make themost ofyour bug-tracking system: ­ Pickone atanappropriate level ofcomplexity foryourpartic- ularsituation. ­ Make itdirectlyavailable toyour users. ­ Automate environmentandconfiguration reportingtoensure accurate reports. "

" Aim forbug reportsthatarethefollowing: ­ Specific ­ Unambiguous ­ Detailed ­ Minimal ­ Unique · Whenworking withusers, dothefollowing: ­ Streamlinethebug-reportingprocess as much as possible. ­ Communication is key--be patient and imagine yourself in theuser's shoes. "

"· Foster a good relationship with customer support and QA so you can leverage theirsupport duringbug fixing. "

"PutIt inAction "

"· Detect bugs as early as possible, and fix them as soon as they come tolight. · Act as though bug-free software was an attainable goal, but tem- per perfectionismwithpragmatism. "

"· If you find yourself faced with a poor quality codebase, do the following: ­ Recognize thereis nosilver bullet. ­ Make surethatthebasics arein place first. ­ Separateclean code fromunclean,andkeep itclean. ­ Usebug triagetokeep on topof yourbug database. ­ Incrementally clean up bad code by adding tests and refac- toring. "

"PutIt inAction "

"· Whenpatchingan existingrelease,concentrateon reducing risk. · Keep on the lookout for compatibility implications when fixing bugs. · Ensure that you have completely closed any timing windows, not just decreasedtheirsize. · Whenfaced witha heisenbug, minimizethe side effects of collect- inginformation. · Fixing performancebugs always startswithan accurateprofile. · Even the most restricted communication channel can be enough toextracttheinformationyou need. · Suspect yourown, aheadofthird-party,code. "

"maintenance"

"JoeAsks"

" PutIt inAction "

"· Automate yourtests,ensuringthattheydothe following: ­ Unambiguously pass or fail ­ Areself-contained ­ Can be executed withasingle click ­ Provide comprehensive coverage · Use branches insource controlsparingly. · Automate yourbuild process: ­ Build andtestthesoftwareevery timeitchanges. ­ Integratestaticanalysis intoevery build. "

"TeachYour Software to DebugItself "

"disabled"

" PutIt inAction "

"· Use assertionstodo thefollowing: ­ Bothdocument andautomaticallyvalidateyour assumptions ­ Ensure that your software, although robust in production, is fragileduring debugging · Createa debug build that ­ Is compiled withdebug-friendly compiler options ­ Allows key subsystems to be replaced by debugging equiva- lents ­ Builds incontrolthatwillprove useful during diagnosis · Detect systemic problems, such as resource leaks and exception handlingissues, preemptively. "

"· The polluter pays--don't allow anyone to move onto a new task until they've completely finished their current one. If bugs come tolightin theirwork,theyfix them. · Make a single team responsible for a product from its initial con- cept throughdeployment andbeyond. · Firefightingwillneverfixaqualityproblem.Takethetimetoiden- tifyandfixtherootcause. · Avoid "big bang" rewrites. · Ensurethatyour code ownershipstrategyisclear. · Treatanythingyoudon't understandas a bug. "

"PutIt inAction "

"· Keep on top of your bug database to ensure that it accurately reflects yourtrue priorities. "
* the net and the butterfly
** intro 
 The Net and the Butterfly: The Art and Practice of Breakthrough Thinking -
 Olivia Fox Cabane (Highlight: 85; Note: 0)

*** The Four Wings
*** Eureka Breakthrough


 "When eureka breakthroughs happen, they happen fast. They are the proverbial
 lightning bolt over the head. Many people report the sensation of receiving
 information from a location “above.” And this sudden discovery of an immediately
 applicable solution is incredibly exciting."

 "They are most likely to come when you have been living with a problem or a
 block. This problem is interfering with your peace of mind; you think about it
 often during the day. But the actual breakthrough will most likely occur when
 you’re no longer thinking about the problem."

*** Metaphorical Breakthrough

 "Metaphorical insights aren’t as direct as eureka insights. Answers come to you
 first as metaphors or analogies, and you must interpret their images before the
 breakthrough is complete. With Archimedes’ eureka insight, the answer came fully
 formed. There was no need to interpret a metaphor: the submersion of his leg was
 a direct correlation to the submersion of the crown."

 "Sometimes, your brain needs to work through various levels of comprehension
 before you can connect a wordless intuition to a real-life problem. Metaphor
 works like a wormhole: it can connect things that appear to be incredibly far
 apart, and it can overlay a pattern on things that appear to be unconnected.
 Unlike their eureka cousins, metaphorical breakthroughs can be had about
 subjects we’re barely familiar with, like a plumber having an insight about
 ammunition."

 "Visual thinking is a common trait among breakthrough thinkers. Many of the
 people we interviewed carry small sketch pads with them at all times. When they
 first put their idea to paper it is often as an image or a series of images.
 Visual thinking accesses different parts of the brain than language and logical
 argument. And it can be even more powerful when you are not very good at drawing
 because it forces you to be less literal and more metaphorical."

*** Intuitive Breakthrough
*** KEY TAKEAWAYS

 "A breakthrough is a sudden advance in our knowledge or understanding that moves
 us past a barrier and allows us to see and understand something in a new way.
 Eureka breakthroughs are clear, sudden, fully formed, immediately applicable,
 and are most likely to arrive when you’re not thinking about a problem. They
 create great excitement in the individual experiencing one. Metaphorical
 breakthroughs usually arrive as metaphors or analogies and require
 interpretation before they’re complete. They are sometimes embedded in dreams,
 and occur as the brain connects two seemingly disparate items or ideas.
 Intuitive breakthroughs defy logic and explanation and tend to be more of a
 beginning. They allow us to make progress down a longer path. Paradigm
 breakthroughs arrive in clear, straightforward fashion, similar to eureka
 breakthroughs. However, these breakthroughs reveal a grand theory or explanation
 that is without any immediate application. They bring more awe and wonder than
 excitement. They are the rarest, but also the most powerful, type of
 breakthrough. No specific type of breakthrough is better or more productive than
 another, it’s simply a matter of knowing which type is most natural to you."
 
** The Chrysalis

*** "Putting It into Practice: How to Enter the Hypnagogic State"

 "Clear the room of clutter and distractions. Have pen and paper, voice recorder,
 your phone on airplane mode and set to take notes, or . . . Dim the lights (or
 wear an eye mask). Ensure you’re in a quiet place, or that only white noise is
 audible. Don’t get too comfortable—no wearing pajamas or getting in bed. Try to
 find time at midday, or right after you’ve eaten, when you’re just the right
 amount of tired. Set your alarm for ten to fifteen minutes. Take a moment to
 focus your brain on the problem, and then let it go. Relax and drift off."

*** "Putting It into Practice: How to Access the Hypnopompic State"

 "Watch a documentary on something you know nothing about. Thinking about new
 narratives will trip new neural circuits and help your brain form new
 associations. Look through old photos. Your DN might find something valuable in
 a memory file that you’d forgotten years ago. Read a book from your adolescence.
 Old thoughts and feelings will come rushing in. Take a walk outside. You’ll
 simultaneously oxygenate your brain, flip the script on your bedtime routine,
 and see and feel things more interesting than your bathroom. Choose a
 progressive alarm that starts out quietly and builds in volume. You don’t want
 to be jolted awake, bypassing the liminal state you were trying to take
 advantage of. Nature sounds work well here. Have a recording device nearby,
 whether to write, type, or record your voice. The breakthroughs emerging from
 the hypnopompic state can be fleeting and ephemeral, so if you don’t record
 them, they’ll retreat from you as you wake up."

** On the Hunt How to Access Genius Mode
*** intro
   "Putting It into Practice: Mindless Activities We Recommend Doing puzzles or
   walking labyrinths Watching a movie you’ve already seen countless times Throwing
   a rubber ball against the wall Watching sunlight through the trees Staring out
   the window Running Washing dishes by hand Playing video games Folding laundry
   Cleaning a cluttered space Drawing, doodling, or using an adult coloring book
   Cooking a meal you’ve cooked many times before"

*** "Take a Walk"

  "Putting It into Practice: Creative Walking Define your problem. The act of
  verbalizing what you’re looking for can get you started on finding the answer.
  Review your raw material. Read over the latest information you’ve collected.
  Check all the random Post-its and slips of paper you’ve jotted notes on, or any
  digital equivalent. Set a goal. Are you going to walk till you break through the
  blockage, or just for a set period of time or to a destination? Pay attention.
  It’s fine to space out a bit, but don’t neglect the scenery entirely. Carry a
  notebook. Always have a way to record your thoughts on hand. Keep something in
  your hand. A coin, a stone, a paper clip, a Star Wars figurine—we won’t judge.
  Our hands send massive amounts of information to our brains, and keeping those
  channels open keeps our brains in a more associative state. Adam Cheyer always
  keeps a Rubik’s Cube on his desk to play with while thinking. Stop and write it
  down. Don’t enjoy the moment of insight so much that you keep playing with it in
  your head. Few things are as frustrating as forgetting a brilliant thought."

*** "Experiment with Your Environment"


  "Putting It into Practice: Change Your Environment Put up prisms, which combine
  the advantages of light, color, and motion. Bring nature indoors by filling your
  creative space with natural elements such as plants, rocks, a small fountain,
  light, and so on. Climb a tree. Yes, we’re serious. You probably haven’t done it
  in some time, and that’s exactly why you should do it. Seeing the world from a
  weird angle is surprisingly helpful in unlocking a new perspective. If you live
  in a city, go to the top of a tall building and look out. If your building has
  windows in public spaces, go up and look out from there. Borrow a colleague’s
  office that looks out a different side of the building than yours. Stare out the
  window with the new view and notice the differences. How are the streets laid
  out? What are the trees like? Where are the bodies of water? How would you have
  designed the city differently?"

*** "Putting It into Practice: Play with Your Physical Surroundings Right now, find
   five colors you enjoy around you. Touch textures till you find five you find
   enjoyable. Find five different hand movements. Go ahead, we’ll wait. Just do
   different things with your hands."

*** "Putting It into Practice: The Best Background Noises for Creative Work An app
    called Coffitivity recreates the ambient noise of a coffee shop. (The creators
    originally set out to test the effect of background noise on productivity
    levels.) If you’re stuck doing repetitive work, binaural-beat tracks—which play
    slightly different frequencies into your right and left ear—can help you through
    the laborious implementation necessary to turn an insight into reality. Try
    electronic music, which features gradually building “narratives” of repeated
    base melodies. The chug-chugging of a train and the churning of a washing
    machine are incredibly soothing. You can find countless clips online. For a
    choice of ambient sounds try the Web site ASoftMurmur.com. It gives you choices
    that you can mix and match, like rain and thunder, or waves and wind, or waves
    and rain."

*** "Constraints Will Set You Free"

*** "Putting It into Practice: Change Your Psychological Environment Watch a
     documentary about a topic you’d consider “random.” Try to find connections to
     what you are currently working on. How is this new world of bourbon distillers
     in rural Kentucky in any way similar to your project on marketing lip balm?
     Spend the day dressed like someone else. If you’re usually a casual dresser,
     wear a suit. If you wear a suit every day, try wearing a sleeveless shirt and
     shorts. How do you feel different, knowing that you’re being perceived
     differently? (Our clothes are an element of our psychological environment.
     Several studies have shown that participants’ confidence and concentration
     levels were boosted by wearing a doctor’s white lab coat.)19 For the next twenty
     minutes, give in to your first impulse. Just do whatever you feel like doing.
     Harder than you thought, right? We are constantly stopping ourselves from doing
     all kinds of things."

*** "KEY TAKEAWAYS"


      "To achieve true breakthroughs, we must allow our minds to wander. Research
      shows that alternating between cognitively challenging work and activities with
      a low cognitive load enhances creativity. Walking is one of the best activities
      to enhance creativity. Mason Currey found it was the single common factor among
      nearly two hundred of the world’s most prolific inventors and innovators. Be
      disciplined in your process and always have a way to capture your thoughts along
      the way. Although walking outside may be ideal, don’t let the absence of the
      perfect setting hinder you. Walking around the office or even on a treadmill
      provides tremendous creative advantages. A change of environment sparks
      creativity. This change can be to your physical environment, or to your
      auditory, social, or psychological environments. Setting constraints can be
      helpful, whether they are financial constraints, time constraints, or creative
      constraints. Likewise, removing constraints can also produce unexpected
      breakthroughs."

** The Butterfly Process How Breakthroughs Happen Inside Your Head
*** "Seven Essential Innovation Questions"
**** intro
      Here’s a tool to help you create associations. It’s called the seven
      essential innovation questions, or SEIQ.

      SEIQ was created at Autodesk, one of the world leaders in 3-D design software,

      The key words of the seven questions are Look, Use, Move, Interconnect,
      Alter, Make, Imagine. The acronym is 
**** Look: 
***** intro
      What aspects of the problem could we look at in a new way, or from a new
      perspective? 
      Use: What facets of the problem could we use in a new way, or for the first time? 
      Move: What parts of the problem could we move, changing its position in time or space? 
      Interconnect: What could we connect that’s not yet connected, or what could we connect in a different
      way, if it already is connected? 
      Alter: What could we change or alter, in terms of design and performance? 
      Make: What could we make that is trulynew? 
      Imagine: What could we imagine that would create a great
***** 1. Look  
    - Higher Look at something from a 30,000-foot view. 
    - Reverse: Look at something in reverse, from the back, from the other side. 
    - Value: Look at something from the point of view of its value.
    - Kids: Look at something the way a kid might look at it.
    - Ignore: Look at something and ignore what you know to be true about it.
    - Holistic: Look at something from the point of view of the whole thing,
      from a systems point of
***** 2. Use 
     * Leverage How could you use this to leverage something else? 
     * Foundation: How could you use this to build the foundation for something? 
     * Substitute: How could you use this in place of something else? 
     * Aspect: How could you use an aspect of this in a new way? 
     * Change: How could you use this to change something you’re doing? 
     * Apply: How could you apply this in a new
***** 3. Move 
      *Import: What new component could you bring in to make a change? 
      *Rearrange: What could you rearrange to make a change? 
      *Replace: What could you swap out and replace to make a change? 
      *Remove: What could you remove to make a change?
      *Speed: What could you make go faster or slower to make a change?
      *Frequency: What could you have happen more or less often to make 
***** 4. Interconnect 
      *Power: What could you connect to create a more powerful idea? 
      *Combine: What could you combine with to make something new? 
      *Network: What could you network into to make something new? 
      *Transparent: What could you expose to make something new? 
      *Open: What could you open to the world to see something new emerge?
      *Partnership: What could you partner with to make something 
***** 5. Alter
      *What could you improve the quality of? 
      *Design: What could you design differently? 
      *Performance: How could you increase the performance ability?
      *Aesthetics: How could you change the look? 
      *Experiential: How could you change the experience? 
      *Standardize: How could you make it fit with other 
***** 6. Make  
    Processes: What new processes could you create? 
    Meaning: What new meaning could you create/infuse? 
    Harness: What could be harnessed to make something new? 
    Instantiate: What can you instantiate into something new? 
    Functions: What new functions can you create?
    Specialize: What could you make more specialized and focused?"

***** 7. Imagine  
    Amplify: How can you imagine amplifying this? 
    *Easier: How can you imagine making this easier to use, buy, sell, assemble?
    *Negatives: What are the negatives that you could fix?
    *Go: Imagine anything you can. 
    *Sci-fi: Imagine a sci-fi solution or improvement. 
    *Try: Try using IT in different ways to see what happens."

*** Pattern Recognition 
  With pattern recognition, you associate two concepts: seeing
  the underlying patterns and noting their similarity."
*** KEY TAKEAWAYS 
    Associative thinking, or making associations between two seemingly
    unrelated ideas or subjects, is a key attribute of breakthrough thinking. Use
    the seven essential innovation questions (SEIQ) to create associations: How
    could I look at this differently? How could I use this in a way it was not
    intended for? What if I moved this into a new context? What if I connected this
    to something completely new and different? What if I altered a piece of it? What
    if I made something new based on this? How else could I imagine using this?
    Pattern recognition can help you achieve breakthroughs by seeing the underlying
    patterns between your current situation and one that has already been solved or
    come to a conclusion."

** Cultivating Your Garden

 "KEY TAKEAWAYS"

 "Brains remain plastic throughout life. We all have the ability to think new
 thoughts. Although most of us are out of shape neurologically, we can increase
 our plasticity. Don’t waste your breakthrough dopamine, your internal drive, on
 e-mail and phone distraction overload. Exercise is a magic bullet for raising
 plasticity and mood. Just five minutes at a time can help. Plasticity rises
 when doing, learning, and experiencing new things. Experiment with new
 movements, new tastes, new sights, new sounds, new stories. Moving while
 experiencing something new turbocharges the plasticity. Try Einstein-style
 thought experiments. Imagine crazy situations or worlds with different laws and
 see where it takes you. Gather large amounts of information on a chosen subject
 or problem so you can immerse yourself in that field of knowledge. Some of what
 you gather will be useful and actionable. Most of what you gather will not
 directly lead anywhere, and this is okay. Look to others. Engaging others will
 allow you to learn from their perspective and insights. Seek input from people
 in other fields and professions, even if it may seem they cannot help you. Look
 to nature. Mother nature is a 4.5-billion-year research and development
 project. The practice of biomimicry can teach us a lot. Remember to keep notes
 in a central place for later reference. Consider a notebook, or an online app
 like Evernote, which allows you to sync notes to multiple devices (phone,
 laptop, desktop) simultaneously."

** What’s in Your Net? How to Evaluate the Output of Genius Mode


 "Edward de Bono is one of the world’s foremost experts on how we think. "


 "In this classic tool, a team that wants to brainstorm is given six
 different-colored hats, each standing for a different frame of mind, a
 different way of looking at a situation and generating possible solutions."


 "The blue hat focuses on the process, managing time, keeping the big picture in
 mind. The white hat focuses on facts on the ground, figures, metrics, the
 reality of the situation. The red hat focuses on the emotional resonance of the
 situation and the solution, and how others might be impacted, including your
 empathy and fears. The green hat focuses on creative thinking, new
 possibilities, new perspectives on the situation and the solution, and on
 refining new ideas. The black hat has a skeptical outlook and considers risks,
 potential problems and obstacles of the solution, or weaknesses in the plan.
 The yellow hat, on the other hand, is an optimistic outlook, positive thinking,
 a focus on the benefits and best-case scenarios of possible solutions."


 "KEY TAKEAWAYS"


 "Once you’ve finished your research, gathered your data, and discovered new
 ideas, it’s time to evaluate. Edward de Bono’s Six Thinking Hats is a good tool
 for this analysis. We highly recommend his book Six Thinking Hats. Feedback
 from others about your ideas is critical. They will provide you with new
 insights, as well as identify your potential blind spots. Build a crew.
 Surround yourself with other people who can assist you. They will give you
 feedback, supplement your knowledge, make critical connections for you, and
 even help you execute your breakthroughs. Biomimic your brain by mapping your
 team members to the brain regions that create breakthroughs. Remember to add a
 catalyst and deputize someone to play the role of the EN. Use Tom Chi’s
 critique method of brainstorming in a more open way. Get as many ideas up on
 the board as you can, find the connections, invite quiet, create narratives,
 create clusters of ideas and rank them. Create a constraint box by writing out
 all your constraints in the form of a box. The big, open center of the box will
 define your breakthrough space. Put your idea into the world and see what
 happens."

** How Fear Affects Your Mind
*** intro
   "Heightened stress triggers the mind to declare a state of emergency. In
   response your mind turns off what it deems to be unnecessary functions.
   Unfortunately, that means the body is reducing our cognitive abilities just
   when we may need them most. It’s hard to remember this in the midst of an
   anxiety attack, but rest assured that this reaction is an entirely normal one
   intended for your well-being."


   "Social inhibition is, essentially, the fear of “what others would think.” This
   fear of looking stupid or being judged are the flip side of our social
   awareness. "

*** The Science of Small Wins"
  "Remember, research has shown that small wins have enormous power, and as
  Charles Duhigg describes it, “an influence disproportionate to the
  accomplishments of the victories themselves.”21 Small wins fuel transformative
  changes by convincing people that bigger achievements are within their reach.
  And what that means for you is to start with small steps, steps so small they
  seem ludicrously easy. That helps you build success momentum. Duhigg added,
  “‘Small wins are a steady application of a small advantage,’ one Cornell
  professor wrote in 1984. ‘Once a small win has been accomplished, forces are
  set in motion that favor another small win.’ Small wins fuel transformative
  changes by leveraging tiny advantages into patterns that convince people that
  bigger achievements are within reach.” B. J. Fogg, founder of the Stanford
  Persuasive Technology Lab, told us, “For about six months, I’ve been obsessed
  with ‘success momentum,’ the feeling you get when you succeed over and over.
  When you manage to change small things in your life, you feel a growing sense
  of satisfaction and control.”22 It seems our brains aren’t very good at
  distinguishing big successes from small successes. Your successes don’t need to
  be big things, like cleaning your entire home. Just wiping out the bathroom
  sink, he explained, can help create success momentum if—and this is key—you
  feel you succeeded. As Fogg explained, small successes are easier to get than
  big ones, so you can stack up many small successes within a few minutes. And
  you can have dozens during any given morning. Small successes (not big ones)
  are the fastest, simplest way to build success momentum. When Fogg knows he’s
  going to have a hard day, he told us that he “does a series of small wins to
  build momentum, increase confidence and resiliency.” He especially favors
  tidying the house. It’s also useful to combat procrastination: when B. J. finds
  himself procrastinating, he gives himself a window during which he can do
  “small win” activities."

*** "Relaxation"
  "Putting It into Practice: The Relaxation Response Step 1: Pick a focus word,
  phrase, image, or use your breath as an object of focus. Step 2: Find a quiet
  place and sit calmly in a comfortable position. Step 3: Close your eyes. Step
  4: Progressively relax all your muscles. Step 5: Breathe slowly and naturally.
  As you exhale, repeat or picture silently your focus word or phrase, or simply
  focus on your breathing rhythm. Step 6: Assume a passive attitude. When other
  thoughts appear, simply think Oh well, and return to your focus. Step 7:
  Continue with this exercise for an average of twelve to fifteen minutes. Step
  8: Practice this technique at least once daily."

** The SuperTools
*** "SuperTool #1: A Sense of Higher Purpose"

  "When you feel you’re on a mission, working for a higher purpose, that this is
  your calling—what you’ve been born to do—then every one of your faculties will
  go on hyperspeed. You’re lit with an inner fire, your brain is firing on all
  cylinders. This is why Steve Jobs cast himself as a prophet, and why
  charismatic leaders inspire measurably more breakthrough innovation."


  "Purpose Turns Your Work into a Mission"


  "A sense of purpose has many other benefits when it comes to breakthrough
  thinking, strengthening our resolve as we face down a number of daunting
  challenges. For instance, it makes you more resilient, more focused, and
  better able to handle stress and make decisions. It is a foundation to
  happiness—you’ll probably even live longer. For instance:"


  "A sense of purpose helps navigate uncertainty. It gives you something solid
  to cling to even when all else seems uncertain. Though you may not know where
  you are in the process, or what’s going to happen, you know what you’re aiming
  for."


  "A sense of purpose increases self-confidence. It also decreases the impostor
  syndrome and helps silence the inner critic. In fact, it’s the single most
  effective tool we know after destigmatization. We often ask clients who are
  feeling nervous about giving a speech, What if you had the cure for cancer?
  What if it were your God-given mission to bring this message to the world?
  Would you still feel nervous? A sense of purpose makes you healthier. Having a
  strong sense of purpose in life may lower the likelihood of brain tissue
  damage in older adults, new research suggests. When annual psychological
  evaluations were stacked up against autopsy results, the research team
  determined that men and women characterized as having a strong sense of life
  purpose were 44 percent less likely to have suffered major brain tissue
  damage. “Having a sense of purpose,” concluded one of the study coauthors,
  “will make a difference to your physical health.”4"

*** "SuperTool #2: Altruism"


  "Altruism, like a sense of purpose, truly is a SuperTool when it comes to
  fostering breakthrough innovation. If engaged in consistently, it provides
  insurance and protection against a number of major creativity blockers. For
  instance: Altruism provides a wonderful counterbalance to feelings of failure,
  impostor syndrome, and the inner critic (“At least I’m doing good”). Helping
  others tends to boost your own self-worth. It also helps foster
  self-compassion, makes it easier to forgive yourself (you know your intentions
  were the best, you were really trying), and brings up common humanity (a key
  part of self-compassion). Altruism helps you navigate uncertainty, first by
  providing some certainty (“At least I know for sure I’m working for the greater
  good”), and second by giving your brain a great oxytocin wash. Altruism gets
  you out of your own head (where most of the tailspins are happening) and more
  focused on the outside world. With this broader focus, you’re more inclined to
  take the perspective of others, and that alone increases divergent thinking,
  the biggest measure of creativity."

*** "SuperTool #3: Meditation"

  "Regular meditators have more gray matter in their prefrontal cortex, and over
  time their brains become finely tuned willpower machines. Better yet,
  meditation directly increases the horsepower of your brain’s breakthrough
  council. A very recent study of a variety of meditation techniques showed
  increased connectivity in the areas related to memory, learning, and emotion.8"


  "Another significant recent study showed that all the main meditation
  techniques result in increased folding of the cortex, that is, increased
  gyrification. Increased gyrus formation is thought to increase processing of
  information, so you could literally become smarter by meditating.9"


  "Meditation is for the mind what a health and fitness program is for the body.
  It’s a mental gym, training the mind. Neuroscientists found that when you ask
  your brain to meditate, it gets better not just at meditating, but at a wide
  range of self-control skills, including attention, stress management, impulse
  control, and self-awareness."


  "“Simply taking one mindful breath, any time and in any circumstance, is
  beneficial,” explains Meng. "


  "Like many other meditators and habit experts, Meng recommends finding a
  routine cue. He explains that you can use as a trigger the moment you wake up,
  the moment you lie down to bed at night, or you can add an hourly chime to your
  smartwatch or smartphone and get a mindful breath reminder once per waking
  hour."


  "Putting It into Practice: Creating a Habit of Taking Mindful Breaths Choose a
  cue, something that, when it occurs, activates the habit of taking a mindful
  breath. The cue we most highly recommend is any situation in which you have to
  wait. Whenever the cue occurs, take one slow, deep breath, and bring some
  amount of attention to that breath. For safety reasons (for example, if you’re
  walking or driving), you may need to maintain the appropriate amount of
  attention on your surroundings as you pay some attention to your breath. If
  taking that mindful breath makes you feel any better, simply notice that. That
  will be the reward that reinforces the habit."

** Chapter Summaries"
*** Chapter 1: 
  The Four Wings A breakthrough is an idea that solves a problem or
   satisfies a need in an entirely new way. We identified four distinct styles of
   breakthroughs. Eureka breakthroughs are clear, sudden, and fully formed. They
   create great excitement as you know exactly what problem they will solve and
   how. Metaphorical breakthroughs come first as metaphors or analogies, sometimes
   as dreams, and require interpretation to understand what problem they are
   solving and how. Intuitive breakthroughs defy logic and explanation and tend to
   be more of a beginning, the start of progress down a longer path. Paradigm
   breakthroughs reveal a grand theory or explanation that is without any clear,
   immediate application. They arrive clear like a eureka breakthrough but with
   more awe and wonder than excitement. This is the most rare, but also most
   powerful type of breakthrough. Each person is prone to one or two styles. None
   is better than the other. 

*** Chapter 2: The Chrysalis Breakthroughs happen when we
   switch between two different but connected brain modes: the focused mode of the
   executive network, the EN, and the meandering mode of the default network, the
   DN. The EN is goal and action oriented. The DN is associative and nonlinear.
   Switching between them in a disciplined way is what creates breakthroughs. The
   EN focuses and delivers the problem to the DN, also called the genius council,
   to work on at times when you are off-task. The EN and DN work together to
   notice the breakthrough. The hypnagogic and hynopompic states—the time as we
   fall asleep and wake up—are particularly fertile environments for
   breakthroughs. 
*** Chapter 4: The Butterfly Process Associative thinking, making
   associations between two seemingly unrelated ideas or subjects, is a key
   attribute of breakthrough thinking. One tool is the SEIQ, or seven essential
   innovation questions. These help guide you or your team through a process to
   create new associations. Another powerful tool that can allow you to associate
   two series of concepts is pattern recognition. Pattern recognition can help you
   see the underlying patterns and connections between two narratives, subjects,
   entities, roles, and so on, noting the similarities between them and
   discovering new applications. 

*** Chapter 3: On the Hunt Breakthroughs occur when we allow our
   minds to wander. Research shows that alternating between cognitively
   challenging work and activities with a low cognitive load enhances creativity.
   Walking is one of the best activities to induce breakthrough mind-wandering.
   Always have a way to capture your thoughts along the way. All walking helps;
   though outside is best, in the office or a treadmill are also very beneficial.
   Changing your environment can also spark breakthroughs. You can change your
   physical environment, but also your auditory, social, or psychological
   environments. And don’t forget to set constraints, which can be financial
   constraints, time constraints, or creative constraints, which can produce
   unexpected breakthroughs. Likewise, removing constraints can also be
   productive. 

*** Chapter 5: Cultivating Your Garden
   Neuroplasticity is a major tool in our quest to achieve breakthroughs.
   Everyone’s brain remains plastic throughout life. Though many of us are out of
   shape neurologically, we can still increase our plasticity. We increase our
   plasticity when we do new things, and learn and experience new things like new
   tastes, new sights, new sounds, new stories. Or we can play with Einstein-style
   thought experiments. Gathering large amounts of information helps our
   plasticity, and our genius councils will have more breakthroughs. Gather
   information from your area of expertise, from adjacent fields, and from far
   afield. Seek input from those in other fields. Also look to nature for lessons
   by using the field of biomimicry. And remember to keep notes in a central place
   for later reference. Consider a notebook, or an online app like Evernote, which
   allows you to sync notes to multiple devices (phone, laptop, desktop)
   simultaneously. 

*** Chapter 6: What’s in Your Net? We looked at a number of ways to
   evaluate the breakthroughs in your net. Edward de Bono’s Six Thinking Hats is a
   good tool for this analysis. Talk to other people about your idea. Create a
   crew, a trusted group of advisers. Biomimic your own brain to build that crew,
   making sure you cover the qualities needed: empathy, contextual association,
   and memory, and the types of people needed: mavens, makers, theorists, and
   generalists. Remember to add catalysts and an EN representative. We discussed
   Tom Chi’s brainstorm critique method and the power of building a constraint
   box. Just try it. Put your idea to the test and see what happens. 

*** Chapter 7:
   The Spiders of Fear Fear is a major inhibitor of breakthroughs. We are
   hardwired to catastrophize and reinforce our negativity bias. We must learn to
   handle our fear and understand that failure is unavoidable. The fear that
   overwhelms our breakthrough abilities comes in one of four main forms. The
   impostor syndrome can be fought by defining your new self-image, gathering and
   displaying supporting evidence, and acting in a new way. The inner critic can
   be fought by finding who the “everybody” is you think you’re less than and
   creating a new “everybody.” The perfectionist can be fought by remembering
   mistakes are rare and thus precious, and by posting pictures around you of
   people you admire encouraging your imperfection. The maximizer can be fought by
   putting limits on its demands and expectations of you. To handle fear, be
   present to the experience of your body, yawn, relax, and make a practice of
   gratitude, self-forgiveness, and self-compassion. 

*** Chapter 8: The Failure Wasps
   The experience of failure is one of shame, dismay, disappointment, or even
   despair. But with failure skills we can stay in learning mode so we learn from
   failure and rebound fast. We can reframe our failures as learning opportunities
   with cognitive or social proof reframing. We can also detach from the emotions
   failure evokes: just because it’s in your head doesn’t mean it’s true. Learn
   how to handle your thoughts, don’t try to suppress them. Bouncing back from
   failure is similar to bouncing back from grief, the more you accept that the
   faster you’ll move through it. Practicing failure helps you get used to the
   experience, whether in sports, poker, cooking, or improv. Remember to focus on
   the behavior, not the outcome. There are also mental practices, living the
   moment and rehearsing all possible outcomes. Learn to judge the outcome by the
   quality of the decisions made and learn from others about how they make
   decisions. 

*** Chapter 9: Icy Uncertainty Uncertainty is an unavoidable part of the
   breakthrough process. It is possible to balance your uncertainty by creating
   areas of more certainty. You can create steady routines, habits, and rituals.
   Start with small, easy, specific goals, with triggers to spur consistency—and
   plan to fail. You can also learn to think in probabilities, like a poker
   player. But though uncertainty can be contained within ranges, it can never be
   gotten rid of completely. Practicing uncertainty can be helpful: watch a movie
   or a sporting event and notice how the uncertainty of the outcome feels in your
   body and mind. The responsibility transfer can be used to help ease the pain
   and anxiety of uncertainty. 

*** Chapter 10: The SuperTools Knowing what higher
   purpose your project will serve and reminding yourself of it regularly helps
   minimize the worries and self-doubt that can interfere with breakthrough
   thinking. Small acts of altruism have a proven effect on happiness, health, and
   inventive thinking; just don’t be fake about it. Meditating is the ultimate
   exercise for a stronger, healthier brain. Try it during the minutes of your day
   when you’re waiting for things to start."


   "Key Exercises"


   "Using Sleep to Access Genius Mode The minutes just before and after sleep can be a fertile environment for breakthrough. Falling asleep allows us to access DN solutions in the hypnagogic state. Waking from sleep allows us to discover DN solutions through the hypnopompic state. Falling Asleep: Accessing Your Hypnagogic State How to enter the hypnagogic state: Clear the room of clutter and distractions. Have pen and paper, voice recorder, your phone on airplane mode and set to take notes, or . . . Dim the lights (or wear an eye mask). Ensure you’re in a quiet place, or that only white noise is audible. Don’t get too comfortable—no wearing pajamas or getting in bed. Try to find time at midday, or right after you’ve eaten, when you’re just the right amount of tired. Set your alarm for ten to fifteen minutes. Take a moment to focus your brain on the problem, and then let it go. Relax and drift off. Waking Up: Accessing the Hypnopompic State How to access the hypnopompic state: Watch a documentary on something you know nothing about. Thinking about new narratives will trip new neural circuits and help your brain form new associations. Look through old photos. Your DN might find something valuable in a memory file that you’d forgotten years ago. Read a book from your adolescence. Old thoughts and feelings will come rushing in. Take a walk outside. You’ll simultaneously oxygenate your brain, flip the script on your bedtime routine, and see and feel things more interesting than your bathroom. Choose a progressive alarm that starts out quietly and builds in volume. You don’t want to be jolted awake, bypassing the liminal state you were trying to take advantage of. Nature sounds work well here. Have a recording device nearby, whether to write, type, or record your voice. The breakthroughs emerging from the hypnopompic state can be fleeting and ephemeral, so if you don’t record them, they’ll retreat from you as you wake up. Mindless Activities We Recommend To achieve true breakthroughs we must allow our minds to wander. Research shows that alternating between cognitively challenging work and activities with a low cognitive load enhances creativity. Mindless activities we recommend: Doing puzzles or walking labyrinths Watching a movie you’ve already seen countless times Throwing a rubber ball against the wall Watching sunlight through the trees Staring out the window Running Washing dishes by hand Playing video games Folding laundry Cleaning a cluttered space Drawing, doodling, or using an adult coloring book Cooking a meal you’ve cooked many times before Creative Walking Walking has been shown to be one of the best activities to enhance creativity. It is a wonderful way to set the conditions for a breakthrough, but there is more to it than simply meandering along. Define your problem. The act of verbalizing what you’re looking for can get you started on finding the answer. Review your raw material. Read over the latest information you’ve collected. Check all the random Post-it notes and slips of paper you’ve jotted notes on, or any digital equivalent. Set a goal. Are you going to walk till you break through the blockage, or just for a set period of time or to a destination? Pay attention. It’s fine to space out a bit, but don’t neglect the scenery entirely. Carry a notebook. Always have a way to record your thoughts on hand. Keep something in your hand like a coin, a stone, or a memento. Our hands send massive amounts of information to our brains and keeping those channels open keeps our brains in a more open, associative state. Stop and write it down. Don’t enjoy the moment of insight so much you keep playing with it in your head. Few things are as frustrating as forgetting a brilliant thought. Change Your Environment This change can be to your physical environment, but it can also be a change to your auditory, social, or psychological environments. Change Your Perspective Put up prisms, which combine the advantages of light, color, and motion. Bring nature indoors by filling your creative space with natural elements such as plants, rocks, a small fountain, natural light, etc. Climb a tree. Yes, we’re serious. You probably haven’t done it in some time, and that’s exactly why you should do it. Seeing the world from a weird angle is surprisingly helpful in unlocking a new perspective. If you live in a city, go to the top of a tall building and look out. If your building has windows in public spaces, go up and look from there. Borrow a colleague’s office that looks out a different side of the building than yours. Stare out the window with the new view and notice the differences. How are the streets laid out? What are the trees like? Where are the bodies of water? How would you have designed the city differently? Change Your Physical Environment Right now, find five colors you enjoy around you. Touch textures till you find five you find enjoyable. Find five different hand movements. Go ahead, we’ll wait. Just do different things with your hands. Change Your Auditory Environment An app called Coffitivity recreates the ambient noise of a coffee shop. (The creators originally set out to test the effect of background noise on productivity levels.) If you’re stuck doing repetitive work, binaural-beat tracks—which play slightly different frequencies into your right and left ear—can help you through the laborious implementation necessary to turn an insight into reality. Try electronic music, which features gradually building “narratives” of repeated base melodies. The chug-chugging of a train and the churning of a washing machine are incredibly soothing. You can find countless clips online. For a choice of ambient sounds try the Web site ASoftMurmur.com. It gives you choices that you can mix and match, like rain and thunder, or waves and wind, or waves and rain. Change Your Psychological Environment Watch a documentary about a topic you’d consider “random.” Try to find connections to what you are working on. How is this new world of bourbon distillers in rural Kentucky in any way similar to your project on marketing lip balm? Spend the day dressed like someone else. If you’re usually a casual dresser, wear a suit. If you wear a suit every day, try wearing a sleeveless shirt and shorts. How do you feel different, knowing that you’re being perceived differently? (Our clothes are an element of our psychological environment. Several studies have shown that participants’ confidence levels were boosted by wearing a doctor’s white lab coat.) For the next twenty minutes, give in to your first impulse. Just do whatever you feel like doing. Harder than you thought, right? We are constantly stopping ourselves from doing all kinds of things. Seven Essential Innovation Questions Use these by yourself or with your team to look at your problem or need from every angle and possibility. You can go down the list in order or jump around. Whenever you get stuck, just choose another direction from the list. 1. Look Higher: Look at something from a 30,000-foot view. Reverse: Look at something in reverse, from the back, from the other side. Value: Look at something from the point of view of its value. Kids: Look at something the way a kid might look at it. Ignore: Look at something and ignore what you know to be true about it. Holistic: Look at something from the point of view of the whole thing, from a systems point of view. 2. Use Leverage: How could you use this to leverage something else? Foundation: How could you use this to build the foundation for something? Substitute: How could you use this in place of something else? Aspect: How could you use an aspect of this in a new way? Change: How could you use this to change something you’re doing? Apply: How could you apply this in a new way? 3. Move Import: What new component could you bring in to make a change? Rearrange: What could you rearrange to make a change? Replace: What could you swap out and replace to make a change? Remove: What could you remove to make a change? Speed: What could you make go faster or slower to make a change? Frequency: What could you have happen more or less often to make a change? 4. Interconnect Power: What could you connect to create a more powerful idea? Combine: What could you combine with to make something new? Network: What could you network with to make something new? Transparent: What could you expose to make something new? Open: What could you open to the world to see something new emerge? Partnership: What could you partner with to make something new? 5. Alter Quality: What could you improve the quality of? Design: What could you design differently? Performance: How could you increase the performance ability? Aesthetics: How could you change the look? Experiential: How could you change the experience? Standardize: How could you make it fit with other things? 6. Make Processes: What new processes could you create? Meaning: What new meaning could you create/infuse? Harness: What could be harnessed to make something new? Instantiate: What can you instantiate into something new? Functions: What new functions can you create? Specialize: What could you make more specialized and focused? 7. Imagine Amplify: How can you imagine amplifying this? Easier: How can you imagine making this easier to use, buy, sell, assemble? Negatives: What are the negatives that you could fix? Go: Imagine anything you can. Sci-fi: Imagine a sci-fi solution or improvement. Try: Try using IT in different ways to see what happens."


   "Change Your Perspective"


   "Plasticity Exercises Experiment with Movement Use your nondominant hand for a variety of activities. Brush your teeth, use a fork, use the key to open your house, write your name. This is also a great exercise to experience what it’s like to build new connections—you’ll really feel neuroplasticity at work. Experiment with Taste Go to a restaurant and order something you’ve never had there before. Really taste it. What’s different about it? Your brain has to create new connections in order to build a structure to represent new flavors. Make a dish, but leave all the salt out of the recipe. Taste it. Notice how the lack of salt changes the flavor. Now add just a little. And taste. Then add a little bit more. Inch your way forward until you’ve added the perfect amount of salt. Experiments with Sight Take a new route to work, the market, or home. Notice as many new things as you can. The next day, take the exact same route, but this time try to predict the landmarks you will see. Watch twenty minutes of a foreign film without subtitles. See what you can piece together about the plot. Are you watching facial expressions more? How well can you understand the emotional state of the characters even without their words? A few of our favorites are: Life Is Beautiful Amelie The House of Flying Daggers Sit in a coffee shop while pretending to read this book, and watch the people around you. Don’t worry, they’ll be too focused on whatever they’re doing to notice you. Look at their facial expressions. Look at how they hold their bodies. Are they moving fast or slow? Do they seem jumpy, nervous, neurotic? Now pick one person and imagine what his morning has been like. If he’s on a computer, try to imagine what he is typing. Is it for work? Is he searching for a new home? Is he shopping? Writing an old flame? Building a narrative with a who, what, why, when, and how is great plasticity work. Experiment with Sound Listen to music from another culture, whether Bollywood dance music, African blues, or traditional Afghani music. Lose yourself in completely different tempos. If you are home alone, try to dance. When you try to figure out how to move your body to an unfamiliar rhythm, you force your brain to translate new sounds into movement. Plasticity Thought Experiments Gravity: Imagine that gravity stops working after 10 P.M. Now, what does the world look like? Are our beds on the ceiling? What does this do to the sports we play? How do we transport goods? Do people have parties in trees covered by nets? Is there a new business making those nets? Are there lawsuits when the nets fail and people go floating off all night? Are movies made where true love is found when these people float down in some random place in the morning? Do teenagers sabotage the nets to float off for adventure? Social norms: Let’s say that you are allowed to kick someone if they truly annoy you. Now what does the world look like? How do you prove the person truly annoyed you? Are there special courts to determine whether you were truly annoyed? How hard are you allowed to kick someone? Are special shoes made that allow you to kick without leaving a mark? Is there a social peace movement to stop the kicking? Age: Imagine you just discovered that you are guaranteed to live to be 130 years old and remain in excellent physical health. You might notice an internal reaction, perhaps a fleeting thought of “Wait, I thought I would live till . . .” It’s natural to unconsciously set expectations. Did you know you had been using that age as a general barometer? Now try to imagine what your life would look like. How does that affect the decisions you make? Will you stay in your current career the whole time? Will you remain in your current marriage or relationship? How would society change if everyone were to live to 130? Would everyone be expected to have more than one marriage? How long would people wait to have children? Would everyone have to wait their turn to have children due to overpopulation from longer life spans? Would people auction off their right to have children to others? Magic: Maybe you’ve heard tales of cities that stand entirely on stilts with suspended walkways for sidewalks. Or a city that consists of nothing but plumbing, pipes, showerheads, bathtubs, and valves connected in a maze of metal devoid of any buildings. Other cities trade only in memories, and you can only buy things by sharing memories. Now you design one of these magical cities. What does it look like? How do the people interact in this city? What are the rules? Here’s a way to increase your brain plasticity even more: Imagine you are in a scene, like a character in a highly realistic video game. You’re walking down the street, opening doors, turning your head left and right to look at new things. Imagine putting your hand up to feel the wind. Walk down one of the main streets and hear the traffic. Using the Six Hats to Evaluate Potential Breakthroughs Find people who are naturally talented and have one or more of the thinking styles. Run your breakthrough idea by them and get their feedback. Try to have all six thinking styles represented. The blue hat focuses on the process, managing time, keeping the big picture in mind. The white hat focuses on facts on the ground, figures, metrics, the reality of the situation. The red hat focuses on the emotional resonance of the situation and the solution, and how others might be impacted, including your empathy and fears. The green hat focuses on creative thinking, new possibilities, new perspectives on the situation and the solution, and on refining new ideas. The black hat has a skeptical outlook and considers risks, potential problems and obstacles of the solution, or weaknesses in the plan. The yellow hat, on the other hand, is an optimistic outlook, positive thinking, a focus on the benefits and best-case scenarios of possible solutions. Breakthrough Tools for Teams When building your breakthrough crew or genius council, you want the following qualities in the room: Empathy: You’re looking for people who are skilled at taking other perspectives and have a natural ability to feel how others might respond to a new idea. You want the people others go to when they’re having a hard time. Contextual associations: You want people who have worked in different industries, people who have dual majors in subjects like math and poetry, or French and economics. You need people who have a deep hobby in something apart from their job, like computer programmers who practice Tai Chi or executives who paint. Memory: Historians could be good for this, or people interested in history. People who worked on previously successful breakthroughs in a similar space are helpful, as is anyone who has been there before and is reflective about his experience. And you want the following personality types in the room: Mavens: You want someone on your crew who has her finger on the pulse of the market, the company, the culture. You want someone who knows what is expected to happen in five years and is already up on the thing that will be huge in six months. This person can gauge your breakthrough and give thoughts about whether or not it is new enough, different enough, and is pointing in the same direction as the cultural arrow. Makers: You want the mechanical engineers, the designers, the builders, the people who will draw and build mock-ups and get very concrete about an idea. You need to stay grounded in reality and in what is feasible. Theorists: You need people who have a deep knowledge of the subject even if they’ve never tried building something but have only studied it. Theorists can often offer deep pattern recognition and new insights that those only concerned with applying their idea might miss. This means including people who might be a little older. Generalists: These people have a wide range of knowledge and as such they are very good at acquiring new information. They learn new things and integrate them and connect them to other things. They can be very helpful just listening to topics they don’t know about. Their lack of knowledge leaves them open to helpful connections and insights. Tom Chi’s Brainstorm Start by having everyone state the things that work about the breakthrough. Write those on a board. Pick a goal, say fifteen things that work. Don’t write them in a list. Write them all over the board. No list, no prioritizing, no top, and no bottom. Draw a picture beside the idea. Pictures turn on a different part of the brain, the nonverbal part. Tell everyone to do their best not to judge anything. Try to stay open minded. Do not voice opinions. Try not to let your ego become attached to any of the ideas on the board. Chi suggests you spend thirty minutes to reach your goal of fifteen things that are working. And then you need to create a transitional moment. Take two minutes of silence. Tell everyone to look at the board, take it all in, and let things start to connect. The silence and the looking at the board are a way to use the EN to direct the DN’s genius lounge to start connecting things, and to give it space to do so. You are creating a ritual to slide everyone into their associative state. Have people draw the connections they see among the things that are working. Have them up at the board drawing lines. You want people to see the connections. Use different colored markers for the different connections. (The board starts to look like a spider web. That’s okay. It will slow down naturally.) Ask people to tell little stories about the connections they see, saying how these things are connected. The stories encourage people to build on one another. Clusters will begin to emerge, groups of connected ideas. Once you have six, eight, ten clusters, ask people how they feel about them. Ask them to rate the clusters on a scale of 1 to 10. Only look at clusters that rank at 7 or above."


   "Changing Your Self-image Define your goal. What self-image do you want? Gather past evidence. Look into the past and write out five ways you’ve been creative. Put the evidence on display. Pin them up on the wall or use a Post-it. Do this every night for ten days. On the last evening, read all the items at once. See how you feel about your self-image now. Embrace your new self-image. Take advantage of the science of small wins and build up many “small successes.” Handling the Impostor Syndrome Shortcut #1: Change the Label Try simply changing the name of what you aspire to be, and see if there is another term that fits more easily with your current self-image. Olivia, for example, doesn’t consider herself to be creative. Resourceful, yes. Ingenious, yes. Those words feel comfortable. But she’s not comfortable calling herself “creative,” because creativity is not in her self-image. To her, “creative” belongs to those other people who have a design sensibility, to artists, to people who do creative things (like music, art, and theater). Creativity feels intangible, elusive, something she can’t see the contours of. But with the self-image of someone who is “ingenious and resourceful,” she achieves the same creativity. Shortcut #2: Flip the Scenario Ask yourself which elements of your experience (or lack thereof), personality, or background does the impostor syndrome use to make you feel like a fraud. Take each of these in turn, and flip them around. “I’m too young for this job” becomes “My youth is a huge advantage because . . .” Do you have a better grasp of new technology? A better understanding of the customer base? A greater willingness to take risks, to try new things? “I’ve never worked in this industry before. I’m not an industry expert” becomes “The fact that I’m not an industry expert is a huge advantage because they already have industry experts falling from the rafters. They don’t need one more. What I can bring is a wealth of new perspectives and different experiences, and I can bring everything I’ve learned outside this industry to bear on the problems we’re facing here.” And so forth . . . Handling Fear: Quick Fixes Here are some quick fixes if you’re feeling that you are in a less than creative state: Check your breathing. Use the body’s effect on the mind by taking deep, slow breaths. Change your body’s position. Assuming a strong, confident physical posture will make you genuinely feel more confident and more powerful. As you feel more powerful, your body language will adapt accordingly. Imagine getting a great hug from someone you love for twenty seconds. Name your feelings. Try simply naming the feelings you’re experiencing—anxiety, fear, shame, and so on. Yawn. Yawning activates the parasympathetic nervous system and relaxes our body. This is why you’ll often see athletes yawn before a competition. The Relaxation Response Step 1: Pick a focus word, phrase, image, or use your breath as an object of focus. Step 2: Find a quiet place and sit calmly in a comfortable position. Step 3: Close your eyes. Step 4: Progressively relax all your muscles. Step 5: Breathe slowly and naturally. As you exhale, repeat or picture silently your focus word or phrase, or simply focus on your breathing rhythm. Step 6: Assume a passive attitude. When other thoughts appear, simply think Oh well, and return to your focus. Step 7: Continue with this exercise for an average of twelve to fifteen minutes. Step 8: Practice this technique at least once daily. Paul Zak’s Favorite Oxytocin Triggers Give someone a hug. Aim for eight hugs a day! Compassion meditation. Dance. Soak in a hot tub. Surprise someone with a gift. Pet a dog. Take a hike with a friend. Write a note of thanks to a teacher or mentor. Write Your Own Biography Write about your life as though an outside person was describing it. Focus on all of your positive aspects as a human. Write about your occupation and the people you are surrounded by in your workplace. Give a description of some of your most meaningful personal relationships and consider the good things these people would say about you. Find positive things that have happened today no matter the size or significance. Take the time to write down this narrative. Just thinking about it won’t be as effective. Metta Sit comfortably, close your eyes, and take two or three deep breaths. As you inhale, imagine drawing in masses of clean air toward the top of your head; then let it whoosh through you from head to toe as you exhale, washing all concerns away. Think of any occasion in your life when you performed a good deed, however great or small. Just one good action—one moment of truth, generosity, or courage. Focus on that memory for a moment. Now think of one being, whether present or past, mythical or actual—Jesus, Buddha, Mother Teresa, the Dalai Lama—who could have great affection for you. This could be a person, a pet, or even a stuffed animal. Picture this being in your mind. Imagine their warmth, their kindness and compassion. See it in their eyes and face. Feel their warmth radiating toward you, enveloping you. See yourself through their eyes with warmth, kindness, and compassion. Feel them giving you complete forgiveness for everything your inner critic says is wrong. You are completely and absolutely forgiven. You have a clean slate. Feel them giving you wholehearted acceptance. You are accepted as you are, right now, at this stage of growth, imperfections and all. Acceptance Manifesto You are perfect. At this stage of development, you are perfect. At this stage of growth, you are perfect. At this stage of perfection, you are perfect. With everything that’s in your head and heart, you are perfect. With all your imperfections, you are perfect. For this phase of growth, you are perfect. You are fully approved just the way you are, at this stage of development, right now. Fear No More The skill is in knowing how to handle the negative thoughts, rather than trying to suppress them or argue with them. Don’t give your thoughts the benefit of the doubt. Sure, they’re yours. But that doesn’t mean they’re accurate. Start from the notion that you probably missed a lot of things and there are positive elements waiting to be noticed. Imagine your thoughts like graffiti on a wall. Name what you are experiencing: anger, anxiety, self-criticism. Naming what you are experiencing can help you neutralize it. Make it less personal. Don’t say, “I’m feeling ashamed.” Instead say, “There is shame being felt.” Take a step back. Observe the experience like an anthropologist observing a ritual. Imagine that you’re a scientist observing a phenomenon: “Fascinating. There are self-critical thoughts happening.” Imagine looking at the Earth from space. Now come closer, see your country, your neighborhood, your house. Here you are, this one person, having this experience on this planet right now. Imagine your negative thoughts are a podcast. Take off your headphones, set your music player aside. Lay out what it would look like if everything you’re worried about happens, if everything that can go wrong does. Now notice that you survived that scenario. Remember all the times before when you felt a similar negativity or anxiety. You didn’t think you’d make it through then. And yet you did. Getting Closure on a Failure To get closure on a failure, neuroscientist Richard Wiseman suggests a three-step process: Write it down: pour out onto paper everything that’s on your mind, everything that weighs on your heart. What happened, how you felt—this is a mental purge, or as some of our clients call it, a “vomit sprint.” Rip it up: with gusto and enthusiasm. Really get into the motions, hear the ripping, feel the tearing. Burn it, if you can, and officially declare the failure closed. The Failure Blueprint Reframe failure—learn to see it as an essential part of the breakthrough process. Practice failure: Experientially: sports, poker, cooking, etc. Mentally: rehearsals and visualization. During failure, use self-forgiveness and self-compassion to quiet your fight-or-flight response. Learn from the failure: Don’t beat yourself up. Ignore the outcome (for now). Deconstruct the process. Look around the failure. Go see other people. Write up your post-mortem. Knowing that there actually is a “right” way to fail helps talk back to: The inner critic: “We were following the Failure Blueprint.” The impostor syndrome: “Maybe we’re an impostor, but we have a blueprint to follow that will help us do things right.” The perfectionist: “We’re perfectly following the blueprint. It just so happens the blueprint calls for imperfection and failure.” The maximizer: “This is the way to get the most out of the process.” The Responsibility Transfer Sit comfortably or lie down, relax, and close your eyes. Take two or three deep breaths. As you inhale, imagine drawing clean air toward the top of your head. As you exhale, let that air whoosh through you, washing away all worries and concerns. Pick an entity—God, Fate, the universe, whatever may best suit your beliefs—you can think of as benevolent. Imagine lifting the weight of everything you’re concerned about—this meeting, this interaction, this day—off your shoulders and placing it on the shoulders of the entity you’ve chosen. They’re in charge now. Visually lift it off your shoulders and feel the difference as you are now no longer responsible for the outcome of any of these things. Everything is taken care of. You can sit back, relax, and enjoy whatever good you can find along the way. Finding a Purpose at Your 100th Birthday Gathering Sit or lie down, close your eyes, and set the scene. Where is your gathering being held? What day of the week, what time of day? What is the weather like? See the building where the gathering is being held. See people arriving. Who’s coming? What are they wearing? Now move into the building and look around inside. Do you see flowers? If so, smell the flowers’ scent heavy in the air. See people coming through the door, perhaps getting drinks at the bar or food at the buffet. Imagine, perhaps, that everyone is sitting around round tables filling the room. What kind of chairs are they sitting in? What do these chairs feel like? Someone taps on a glass to request attention, and announces that the toasts will begin. Think of the people you care most about or whose opinions matter most to you. What are they thinking? See them standing up one after another and delivering their message for you or their stories about you. What are they saying? Do they mention accomplishments? Regrets? Now think: What would you like them to have said? What accomplishments would you have liked them to mention, if any? What regrets do you have? Meng’s Lazy Practice You may close your eyes or keep them open. Take one slow, deep breath. For the duration of that one breath, give your full attention to your breath in a gentle way. Total and gentle attention on feeling your breath, that is all. If you prefer a more specific instruction, bring attention to the feeling in either your nose or the belly as you breathe. Creating a Habit of Taking Mindful Breaths Choose a cue, something that, when it occurs, activates the habit of taking a mindful breath. The cue we most highly recommend is any situation in which you have to wait. Whenever the cue occurs, take one slow, deep breath, and bring some amount of attention to that breath. For safety reasons (for example, if you’re walking or driving), you may need to maintain the appropriate amount of attention on your surroundings as you pay some attention to your breath. If taking that mindful breath makes you feel any better, simply notice that. That will be the reward that reinforces the habit."

